Newsletters: add 368 (2025-08-22) (#2468)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2025-08-22-newsletter.md

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #368'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2025/08/22/
name: 2025-08-22-newsletter
slug: 2025-08-22-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME

## News

- **Draft BIP for block template sharing:** Anthony Towns [posted][towns
  bipshare] to the Bitcoin-Dev mailing list the [draft][towns bipdraft]
  of a BIP for how nodes can communicate to their peers the transactions
  they would attempt to mine in their next block (see [Newsletter
  #FIXME][news366 templshare]).  This allows the node to share
  transactions it will accept via its mempool and mining policy that its
  peers might normally reject by their own policy, allowing those peers
  to cache those transactions in case they are mined (which improves
  [compact block relay][topic compact block relay] effectiveness).  The
  transactions in a node's block template are usually the most
  profitable unconfirmed transactions known to that node, so peers that
  previously rejected those transactions for policy reasons might also
  find them worthy of additional consideration.

  The protocol specified in the draft BIP is simple.  Shortly after a

>   connection with a peer is initiated, the node sends a `sendtemplate`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  a node initiates a connection with a peer, it sends a `sendtemplate`
```

Author: Leaving as-is, either the node or the peer could initiate the connection.  AFAIK, AJ's proposal isn't limited to outbound only.

  message indicating to the peer that it is willing to send block
  templates.  At any later time, the peer can request a template with a
  `gettemplate` message.  In response to the request, the node replies
  with a `template` message that contains a list of short transaction
  identifiers using the same format as a [BIP152][] compact block
  message.  The peer can then request any transactions it wants by
  including the short identifier in a `sendtransactions` message (also

>   as in BIP152).  The draft BIP allows templates to be up to slighly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  as in BIP152).  The draft BIP allows templates to be up to slightly
```

>   more than twice the size of current maximum block weight limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  more than twice the size of the current maximum block weight limit.
```

  minisketch] (allowing much larger templates to be shared efficiently),
  and using Golomb-Rice [encoding][wuille templgr] on the templates
  similar to [compact block filters][topic compact block filters] (an
  estimated 25% efficiency).

- **Trusted delegation of script evaluation:** Josh Doman [posted][doman
  tee] to Delving Bitcoin about a library he's written that uses a
  _trusted execution environment_ ([TEE][]) that will only sign a
  [taproot][topic taproot] keypath spend if the transaction containing
  that spend satisfies a script.  The script can contain opcodes that
  are not currently active on Bitcoin today or a completely different
  form of script (e.g.  [Simplicity][topic simplicity] or [bll][topic
  bll]).

  This approach requires those receiving funds to the script to trust
  the TEE---both that it will still be available to sign in the future
  and that it will only sign a spend that satisfies its encumbrance
  script---but it allows rapid experimentation with proposed new
  features for Bitcoin with actual monetary value.  To reduce trust in
  the TEE remaining available, a backup spend path can be included, for

>   example a [timelocked][topic timelocks] path that allows a participant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  example, a [timelocked][topic timelocks] path that allows a participant
```

  transactions and the number of pools mining these transactions to an increase
  in the Bitcoin exchange rate.

- [Core Lightning #8467][] extends `xpay` (see [Newsletter #330][news330 xpay])
  by adding support for paying [BIP353][] Human Readable Names (HRN) (e.g.
  satoshi@bitcoin.com) and enabling it to pay  [BOLT12 offers][topic offers]
  directly, removing the need to run the `fetchinvoice` command first. Under the
  hood, `xpay` fetches the payment instructions using the `fetchbip353` RPC
  command from the `cln-bip353` plugin introduced in [Core Lightning #8362][].

- [Core Lightning #8354][] starts publishing `pay_part_start` and `pay_part_end`
  event notifications for the status of specific payment parts sent with
  [MPP][topic multipath payments]. The `pay_part_end` notification indicates the
  duration of the payment and whether it was successful or failed. If the
  payment fails, an error message is provided and, if the error onion isn’t
  corrupted, additional information on the failure is given, such as the source
  of the error and the failure code.

- [Eclair #3103][] introduces support for [simple taproot channels][topic simple

>   taproot channels], leveraging[MuSig2][topic musig] scriptless

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  taproot channels], leveraging [MuSig2][topic musig] scriptless
```

  and memory requirements for nodes significantly." {% assign timestamp="0:19" %}

- [Bitcoin Core 29.1rc1][] is a release candidate for a maintenance
  version of the predominant full node software. {% assign timestamp="0:46" %}

- Core Lightning 25.09rc1 FIXME:harding

## Notable code and documentation changes

_Notable recent changes in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo],
[Lightning BLIPs][blips repo], [Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition
repo], and [BINANAs][binana repo]._

- [Bitcoin Core #32896][] introduces support for creating and spending
  unconfirmed Topologically Restricted Until Confirmation ([TRUC][topic v3
  transaction relay]) transactions by adding a `version` parameter to the
  following RPCs: `createrawtransaction`, `createpsbt`, `send`, `sendall`, and

>   `walletcreatefundedpsbt`. The wallet enforces the TRUC transactions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  `walletcreatefundedpsbt`. The wallet enforces the TRUC transaction
```
